陈梓欣的自我介绍
Abstract: Objective. A plethora of data supports a link between parenting
behaviors and child anxiety, but few studies have examined potential
mediators of this relation, particularly neurophysiological ones.
According to the theory of allostasis and allostatic load, dynamic
environmental stress might disrupt children's neurophysiological systems,
and in turn contribute to child psychopathology. The present study aimed
to delineate the relations among emotion-parenting behaviors, children's
physiological responses to acute stress, and child anxiety symptoms in a
group of Chinese families. Method. Sixty-one parent-child dyads (Child
Mage¬= 8.21 years, SD = 1.40, Range = 6-12 years) participated in an
acute stress protocol independently, from which children's physiological
(cortisol and respiratory sinus arrhythmia) responses to acute stress
were recorded. The dyads then completed a series of questionnaires
assessing parents' emotion-parenting behaviors and children's anxiety
symptoms. Results. Results showed that supportive and unsupportive
emotion-parenting behaviors were related to child anxiety symptoms
through the mediating effect of children's cortisol recovery to acute
stress but not through their RSA suppression during an acute stress task,
suggesting that children's HPA axis seemed to be more subject to
allostatic load in the context of emotion-parenting behaviors.
Conclusion. Our findings demonstrate one specific neurobiological
mechanism linking parenting behaviors and child anxiety. We also
highlight the importance of training parents to respond effectively to
children's emotional expression to help children build physiological
